So we've already used CloudFormation inside of the AWS console,
but if we wanted to use it inside of the AWS CLI,
we'd have to make sure we set up the CLI with the AWS
credentials we'd need before we dived into that.
So if you need help with that process and you haven't yet set up the AWS
CLI or generated credentials to work with the CLI,
go to the Instruction section of the materials download for this course.
There should be a bunch of information there to get you to that point,
which is where I'm at right now.
The first thing I'll need to do is make sure I have a stack
that I want to deploy using CloudFormation.
In this case, I'll be using a new stack called dynamodb‑stack.
Inside of here, we have another resource,
not an SNS topic this time, called globomanticsTable.
It has the Type of an AWS::DynamoDB::Table and a bunch of different
properties that describe how this table will be put together, including
some different AttributeDefinitions for the table,
and if we scroll down, a KeySchema,
as well as ProvisionedThroughput and the TableName.
With all this information included in the resource,
we should be able to use this stack to deploy a DynamoDB table.
So, let's try this using the AWS CLI.
I have a handy commands.txt file here to help give you the
commands to do this process using CloudFormation,
in case you're not able to follow along with me here.
We'll start by using the aws cloudformation deploy command.
Now this will take a few different flags, so I'm going to put a space and
then a backslash and hit Enter to make sure that I can type out the rest
of the commands somewhere you can see them and escape the new lines that
I'm hitting when I'm pressing Enter.
So, I'll do ‑‑template‑file, like you see in the commands.txt file,
and I'll pass in the name of the file that I want to include as the stack,
in this case it's dynamodb‑stack.json.
And I'll do another backslash and hit Enter here so we
can type a new line for this command.
I'll also need to give this stack a stack name,
so I'll call this stack‑name demo‑dynamodb‑stack.
So once I hit Enter, it'll take our dynamodb.stack.json file,
move it over into CloudFormation,
and have CloudFormation deploy the resources inside of that.
It'll keep an eye on this from the command line and
give us the results back here.
But we could also go back to the AWS CloudFormation console.
If we look for this inside of the Services drop‑down,
we can find CloudFormation, and then it'll probably be at the very top here,
in this case demo‑dynamodb‑stack.
You'll notice that this has already finished
deploying our resources pretty quickly,
and we can see the entire deployment process if we went to the Events
section where it started the process of creating our stack,
and then went into the process of creating a particular resource,
like the globomanticsTable, and finally,
finished creating the table and the stack itself.
So if we wanted to check this, we could go to the Services section,
look for DynamoDB,
and depending on your AWS console and how many resources you have already,
it might look different than mine.
But we should be able to find, if we search through the table names here,
and if I look for Globomantics,
we have our globomanticsTable that we just created.
And this is how we deploy a CloudFormation stack using the AWS CLI.
Now if we were done with the infrastructure and we
wanted to remove it completely,
we could run the aws cloudformation delete‑stack command.
Now, this runs over a little bit on my screen,
so I'm going to minimize this here so we can see the entire thing.
Then I'll put a backslash, hit Enter, do ‑‑stack‑name,
and then demo‑dynamodb‑stack.
And we have to make sure it's the exact same stack
name as we were seeing earlier.
Now once I've run this,
I should be able to go back to the CloudFormation console,
and if I go back from DynamoDB over to the CloudFormation
section and refresh the screen a little bit,
you'll see that we now have a DELETE_IN_PROGRESS for this entire stack.
Now, we've done this from the CLI,
but if we wanted to do this in the AWS console,
that's also an option.
So let's delete our old stack.
I'm going to click on this deveops‑sns stack that
we created in the last section, and let's click the Delete button here,
and delete this stack.
Both ways are perfectly legitimate ways of getting
rid of your old infrastructure.
The nice thing is because we've only created AWS resources using CloudFormation,
when we delete these stacks,
we don't have to worry about anything being left
behind from everything we've just done.
So now that you know how to both create stacks and delete stacks
using both the AWS console and the AWS CLI,
you should be pretty ready to get started learning
more about CloudFormation later on, and all the other sorts of infrastructure resources that you could create.